# My Reflection / Blog - Michael Wisser
**Class Section:** IST 402.002
**Date:** September 8, 2019

## MWiz - Markdown Explanation + Video
  This is MWiz today and I will be discussing the popular text-to-HTML conversion tool used in Github, Markdown. Markdown is a text-to-HTML tool meaning that it takes text information and transforms it into HTML for better readability on documentation. Markdown is very popular with software developers, especially on version control software like Git. A popular alternative to Markdown is reStructuredText which both seem very similar on the surface but differ in semantics and extensibility (“reStructuredText vs Markdown for documentation”). 

*M Wiz explains it: Markdown* - [video](https://youtu.be/oL6i30vi4LQ)

## My Thoughts:
  Markdown is an excellent lightweight markup language and text-to-HTML conversion tool, but I did not fully understand it when I had started using it. For one, the goal behind Markdown is the idea of **readability**. Readability is being able to make any piece of information as easy to understand as possible if that information is only read. This is accomplished by appealing to the mind’s perceptive nature by making certain things bolder, italicized, underlined, bigger, or smaller, to emphasize the purpose of the information. Markdown is not just limited to doing just that, it can also separate things via boxes, use lists to number information (or to better represent attributes of the key piece of information), and much more. As someone without too much experience about what formatting should be used to emphasize what, I may not be making my documentation as readable as it should be. I may be abusing the **bold** formatting too much when I should be *italicizing* more and I would not know. Feedback is extremely important by people whom have experience in Markdown and using Markdown for documentation, as I can better understand which formatting I should use to appeal to the reader and make my documentation more understandable.
	My favorite aspect of Markdown is how simple most of the formatting is accomplished. It limits a lot of the potential spelling errors that could be made writing normal HTML. Making a word bold in HTML uses the tags <b> and </b> to close the bold tag but in Markdown it is reduced to just two asterisks between a word or series of words: *This sentence is definitely foo, but not bar*. It’s not a difficult markup language to pick up at all and it is very effective when applied to documentation. 
